CAAO Internship Log: Summer 2017

5/17/2017: 7 hours
Today, I got introduced to what I will be doing and who I’ll be working with. I also got introduced to my work space and some of the
equipment I will be working with. I also had timesheet difficulties, so I spent a fair amount of time today trying to figure out how I can
put in my hours online (looking for future correspondence concerning online timesheet). I also picked up some equipment: monitor from Kim,
keyboard and mouse from dude on 3rd floor. The first two tasks I was given was to download the software for the Basler acA640 -750 µm
camera and figure out how to use it, and to read the book “Handbook of CCD Astronomy” cover to cover. I downloaded the software for the
camera and took a few videos/pictures with it. I also went through the first 3 chapters of the handbook and took notes on it. Tomorrow, I
want to take notes on the next two chapters of the handbook (4 and 5), and play around with the software for the camera more and start
working on a write up for that. I also want to resolve my timesheet difficulties.

5/18/2017: 8 hours
Inputted hours today on UAccess. Also read/took notes through chapters 4 and 5 of the handbook. Started looking at the Basler camera
features and cataloged the different features I could find. Made notes on what program I am supposed to make and started to program in C to
reach my goals. Read the SDK guide for the Basler camera so I could program this correctly. Tomorrow, I want to finish taking notes on the
handbook and continue programming in C.

5/19/2017: 8 hours
Finished working through the handbook and taking notes. Set up Visual Studio on my laptop, along with fixing environment variables and
removing programs that could mess with my coding, and tried to import the sample projects with it. Had to download Windows SDK 8.1 to try
and build the programs. My goals for next week include starting to actually code the program I want to use with the Basler program, read
through the handbook one more time, and to start learning C++.

5/22/2017: 8 hours
Reinstalled/Modified the Visual Studio installation and got the building of the sample C++ files to work with the camera. Quickly learned
basic concepts of C++ in order to apply those concepts to my code writing. Combed through the API in order to view what exactly I have to
do in order to achieve my goals for programming. Focused exclusively on trying t find out how to edit the exposure time today; got a few
leads but nothing spectacular yet. Tomorrow, I want to make more headway on the camera exposure problem and begin planning my code writing. 
Also, I want to change my hours log in the GitHub page to a markdown format.

5/23/2017: 8 hours
Mostly worked in the API for pylon today. Figured out that I want to make a USB Instant Camera object, and implemented that into the start 
of my code. Right now, the code is only for grabbing a single image, and hasn’t been tested. It also was written quite choppily, so it has 
not been doxygen-ized. I also got a tour of the lab today, specifically looking at Beast (GPU problems?) and Corona. Tomorrow, my goals are
finish writing and testing my first C++ program written specifically for the USB camera, and then look through the API and see what I have 
to do in order to start adapting some of my goals for the camera software. I also want to use doxygen to correctly comment the sample 
program I have written once it’s done.

5/24/2017: 8 hours
Coded exclusively today. Tested my initial sample program, and it worked for all two test cases (camera connected, camera unconnected). I
tried to work on the three assignments set out for me. In terms of exposure, I tried to set the value of the parameter, but that is 
throwing an error in the program. I also have exported the output of the camera in the tiff format, so I am going to want to learn how 
to change that to fits and also keep the image and store it in the memory. I also did not get to format my code in the doxygen format, 
so I must do that soon. 

5/25/2017: 6 hours
Finished writing the exposure setting part of the software I’m working on for the Basler camera. Tested it, and I believe it works, 
therefore, I have achieved one of the goals for this software. I also started researching ways to use fits with C++, and looked at CCFits
and FITS++. Finally, I started viewing at how I am going to store the data of the picture in memory. I shall work more on the last two 
goals next week, when I can ask Jared questions about the exposure, any wrappers/packages I should use, and whatnot. I also started 
reading up on the doxygen notation, and started formatting my code that way, so I will need to finish that next week.

5/30/2017: 5 hours (Thus far) + 2 hours (Later)
Worked more with Doxygen installation and my code. realized that I need to take my code out of the main function for my doxygen commenting 
to work. Started to install cfitsio and cmake in order to work with fits files in my code. Might finish installation of those two tonight, 
as I have to leave early.
Later Edit: Worked on installations for cmake and cfitsio. WIll continue tomorrow.

5/31/2017: 7 hours
Today, I worked on the installation for cmake and cfitsio to get them to work, which was certainly difficult. I believe cmake installed 
correctly, but I might have to do a reinstall just to make sure. I still couldn't get an example program for cfitsio to work, so I'll 
have to continue with that tomorrow. I am getting compilation errors, which I think is in part due to linking libraries/headers incorrectly.

6/01/2017: 8 hours
Today, I worked on repairing the cmake/cfitsio installation. I reinstalled cmake so hopefully that fixed any problems with that program. In 
order to get the cfitsio example program to work, I eventually discovered a workaround involving the .dll for cfitsio being included in every
project library with VS. Because the program ended up working after that and including cfitsio libraries, I wanted to start repurposing the 
example fits program from cfitsio to my own program. Therefore I started reading the programmers guide to cfitsio to help with that.

6/02/2017: 8 hours
Worked on adding the cfitsio program to my own, including the painful process of adding libraries, dll files, and configuring the project. 
However, the program only outputs a .tiff file thus far, but I want a fits file from the program. Therefore, I started trying to reformat the
image file in memory to make a fits file instead. Investigated the Basler SDK API in order to find how to get data from each pixel.

6/05/2017: 8 hours
Honestly could not find a way to directly transfer data from memory to a fits file from the basler image object. Asked for help, and 
discovered some shortcomings of my code in terms of how fits expects image data to be read into a file. Fixed the code and will start 
debugging tomorrow, as the program doesn't produce a readable output.

6/6/2017: 6 hours
Debugged the program today, noticed that there was a method that had a non zero exit code, so I tried to find the cause of this. Kept on 
getting an error somewhere in the code due to null pointers/mistakes when making the fits file, so tomorrow, I will look at these errors
further and examine why it's affecting my code.

6/7/2017: 8 hours
Finished debugging the program today, realized that the errors were wonky variables, cleaning up io stream of stdin, and an error with array 
parameters and behaviors when reading in data. Program works and outputs a viewable file, however, the outputted fits file does not match
outputted tiff file, so I needed to get help with that.

6/8/2017: 8 hours
Worked with the SDK in finding the solution to my problem, which is the wrong kind of data is being transferred to the fits file created, so 
the raw image does not match the fits file. Couldn't find much in the SDK, though. I cleaned up my code, updated GitHub, and updated my 
computer (by accident). In the coming days, I will need help on what to do here. What data do I pull from the image to put on the fits file?

6/12/2017: 8 hours
Over the weekend, I altered my code, so I tested that today. Images still were not matching up, so I tried to continue testing and reading the 
SDK to see if there was anything that I was missing. Got suggestions from Jared to use the image buffer in copying data and relooking at the 
nested for loops governing the transfer of data. Implemented that, but received broken programs. Will work more on that/test tomorrow.

6/13/2017: 8 hours
Finished changing my code and getting the pixel data from the buffer instead of using the getpixeldata function. Tested program, and the gray 
values for all of the pixels matched up, and was told that my code was actually working, because the fits image was altered due to stretch and
ratio and whatnot. Therefore, the three main goals I had for this program (capture an image with an arbitrary exposure time, store image in 
memory, and write image to a fits file) are completed, meaning I have finished this assignment's goals. I started cleaning up my code, as now, 
I am going to have to put everything into different functions to get the functionality and ease of use of this code up to par with what Jared
wants.

6/14/2017: 8 hours
Finished separating the program into different functions while preserving the core functionalities of the program. Tested to make sure I 
didn’t mess it up, and it worked fine. Will have to ask Jared to see if there is anything else I must do in terms of separating the program 
out. Also finished the doxygen notation of the program. Again, I will have to see if Jared approves of the doxygen work I have done, and what
I need to change.

6/15/2017: 6 hours
Header files with doxygen are being weird, so I tried to diagnose the problem. Couldn’t, so I’ll have to take a look at that later.
Reconfigured my program so that I don’t need an array to read in the values, I just need the pointer to the image buffer. Program kept
crashing (!!) until I fixed it by messing with the values of the byte size in the fits functions. Uploaded everything to github.

6/19/2017: 8 hours
Jared emailed me over the weekend for some coding goals, so I proceeded to try and knock those out today. I fixed the documentation of my 
code, as some was unnecessary, some was in the wrong place, and my formatting was really off for some. I changed the position of incrementing
iterators, read the Basler SDK and tried output the model name of the camera as well as the serial number of the camera (even though I was 
having problems with the serial number being unreadable), and added the time of picture taken to the fits image header.

6/20/17: 8 hours
Today, I got the serial number problem working, and I also looked up parameters of the pointer to image to see what data was there that I 
could take. I ended up making a struct in my code, and passing that to the write_basler_fits function, and when I got that struct implemented
into my code, I also tried to write as many properties as possible to the header of the outputted fits file. I also reformatted my code more
to check for and recognize errors. 

6/21/17: 8 hours
Today, I got the filename problem sorted out and the program working. I then sorted the program into a header file, a file with just the 
write_basler_fits function, and then the main function in the last cpp file. I then adapted the program to read 10 different exposures from 
an int array and take 10 different pictures and spit them all out. After cleaning up the code, I now have streamlined the program and cleaned
it up so it’s less memory intensive.

6/22/2017: 6 hours
Today, I worked on cleaning up the documentation for the code that I am using the doxygen wizard on. I uploaded the files and organized the 
github repository, so they all should be current and organized. I also started theorizing about that I am going to need to run my program on 
linux. I will need to install cfitsio (UNIX .tar file), pylon SDK, the 2 .cpp files, and the header file. I will also need to try and figure
out how to use Linux effectively. Another project is to find flat field images for the camera and avoid saturation, meaning that I have to 
find a way to put paper over the detector and shine a light on it at different exposures. I theorized different ways to do that as well with
some post it notes and my phone flashlight for now.

6/26/2017: 8 hours
Today I worked on what Jared sent me in the email this morning. Specifically, I started work on the flat field images project. I started by 
implementing code to take an image at the lowest exposure. I then programmed to open that image file and read in all of the data with 
cfitsio. Currently, I am in process of getting the program to take 10 images in a loop, write them all, then open them again and read a 
pixel of data from them.

6/27/2017: 7 hours
Today, I continued working on getting the program to take 10 images in a loop, write them all, then open them again and read a pixel of 
data from them. I was having problems with opening the images back up again in a loop with cfitsio, and the names of the images have to be 
structured in a certain way. I also forgot that the names had to have a .fits at the end, and that was causing me problems.

6/28/2017: 7 hours
Today I finished implementing cfitsio to read a pixel from a loop of 10 images. I then tried to expand the implementation to read the 
entirety of 10 images and trying to find the median pixel value for every pixel in the 10 images. However, I have been running into runtime
errors in my code. Therefore, I will now have to diagnose and treat accordingly.

6/29/2017: 8 hours
Today I debugged the program and made it work for 10 images. It spits out the correct median image, and I tried to optimize it for speed. 
What I have to try next is that by changing the constant amount of images variable, this program works for 100 images as well. I will start 
testing next week.

7/3/2017: 8 hours
Today, I made sure the program worked with 100 image grab, which it did. However, it was really slow, so I came up with these suggestions 
for fixes to the problem of the program taking forever: Don't open every file 640*480 time, have an array of fits pointers, and put the 
pixel values directly into vectors instead of into arrays and then vectors. I tried making the program faster with arrays of fits pointers,
but I encountered problems. I also cleaned up and documented the program, and uploaded everything to GitHub.

7/5/2017: 6 hours
Today, I moved some heavy-ass boxes into the lab. I also debugged my code in order to make the program faster by cleaning up data transfer
in each f the functions. I also finally developed vectors of fits pointers to be used in the program to open all of the images initially. 
When I finished correctly writing the program, the program speed was very fast, even with 100 images. Therefore, I solved the speed problem
of the program.

7/6/2017: 6 hours
Today, I worked at home on getting the program to take a set of N images at M exposure times. I implemented this into the program through 
arrays and incrementing exposure times. However, I kept on running into overflow problems with the program that kill it, even though the 
program works. Therefore, I have to diagnose where the overflow problems are occurring and what I have to do to fix them.

7/7/2017: 8 hours
Today, I fixed the overflow error by adjusting array sizes. Therefore, after a bit more debugging, I have now written a program that Takes 
10 images at 10 different exposure times. I therefore started to figure out how to relate the program to the bigger picture. I also wrote
a function that subtracts two image pointers from each other and writes the new image back to the first image pointer. I need to test this 
image and start coming up with ways to finish the big projects for this code.

7/10/2017: 8 hours
Today, I tried testing the subtracting of arrays function. The debugging of this function was not successful, however, but I’m not sure if
that’s the fault of the other code or of this function. I also started implementing all of my code into one big file to streamline the image
taking process.

7/11/2017: 8 hours
Today, I got stuck debugging the conglomerate file with all of the camera code, as I realized that this would not be practical for image 
taking. I therefore aimed to finalize each of the camera programs separately and then see about combining them later with system calls or
something. I implemented the subtract median image method into the mixed array image taking program, but I encountered some problems. Ended
up trying to debug the program without many results due to overflow errors.

7/12/2017: 8 hours
Continued working on fixing the overflow errors that are in the program. Knew it was due to the reading in of the image, but couldn’t figure
out why. Finally figured it out by looking at how the median image was written in a previous program, and changing the reading in of the 
median image from double to long. Therefore, at the end of the day, I fixed all of the errors in the program and tested functionality.  
I started to work on securing the program (i.e. stopping memory leaks).

7/13/17: 6 hours
Today, I finished both programs by detecting and fixing memory leaks through Visual Studio, while maintaining the structure and effectiveness
of the programs. I uploaded everything to github and updated Jared as well.

7/17/2017: 8 hours
Today, I started writing the sigma clipping program. I started this program off by opening all 100 files, creating an array of fits pointers,
and separating all 100 pictures into sets of 10 with the same exposure. I spent most of today debugging the iterator in the program that 
moves between picture groups, and making sure I’m actually opening the images that I want.

7/18/2017: 6.5 hours
Today I finished off writing the first part of the sigma clipping program by correcting the iterator and then finding the median out of each 
of those 10 images, and then writing that median to a file. I was encountering problems with the fits functions, though, as they were 
throwing errors when reading files. I could not finish the debugging and testing for this, though.

7/19/2017: 7.5 hours
Today I finished debugging the first part of the program by changing parameters, directories, and file locations within the visual studio 
project. I then needed to write the sigma clipping part of the program, so I looked up sigma clipping qualities and wrote the function or 
sigma clipping. It was going to have to be a recursive function, though, as I needed to iterate through the data again if the clipping was
unsatisfactory. However, the recursion bit caused the program to crash, and I could not fix it. 

7/20/2017: 8 hours
Today, I finished debugging and testing the sigma clipping program/recursion, ensuring that I have finished this step. I also debugged for 
memory leaks, and uploaded everything to github. I also helped build the clean room today. I also planned out how I was going to work on the
rest of this camera project. I think next week, I need to start on shining light on the ccd in order to get images that can be used for this
assignment.

7/24/2017: 8 hours
Today, I cleaned up and updated the documentation for all of my code. I uploaded everything to github. I also started on shining lights on
the detector to see what happens and how I can get precise images and how to finish calibrating my images.

7/25/2017: 5 hours
Today, I started messing with the set up of the detector and lights/paper in order to hopefully get a good combination of measurements for
my program. I also started trying to link all of the separate programs together so I have them all at my disposal instantly. Almost finished
with that, however, I was getting some linker errors.

7/26/2017: 7 hours
Today, I finished linking all of the programs together so I had many separate programs. I then started collecting data on camera 
light/placement. However, I soon realized that although the single grab program was working correctly, the grabbing in a loop programs
weren’t. Specifically, it looked like the exposure time never changed in the loop grabbing ones. Therefore, I tried to fix this problem 
in my code.

7/27/2017: 8 hours
Today, I investigated why the program was not outputting the way I wanted. Specifically, it seemed as though the exposure time never 
updated in the program, yet the code was working. I also was wondering why I was getting pure white images sometimes. I eventually saw in 
some of the sample code Basler included that I needed to turn off auto exposure, so I did. I also experimented with grabbing the images in 
a for loop, which had promising results, yet the exposure times I inputted and the Basler viewer’s pictures did not line up for some reason.

7/31/2017: 8 hours
Today, I spent the first part of the day again looking through the SDK to figure out why the actual exposure and my exposure were off.
After looking over why the exposure time was a step behind, I realized that I needed to get the exposure time before I started grabbing 
with the camera. And because just shifting that code caused an error, I realized that I needed to open the camera before anything and close
it when I was done. This fixed work for the single grab program, so I started applying it to all programs.

8/1/2017: 8 hours
Today, I finished applying the fix to all of the files and again checking for memory leaks. Now, my code works the way I want it to. I 
uploaded everything on GitHub and made sure all my code was functioning properly and accurately.

